compact executive cars like the Audi a4
and BMW 3-series
are immensely popular and for one reason
above all yes they deliver fun comfort
practicality and luxury all rolled up in
one affordable to run package but what
people really love about these cars is
that they project the right image in the
company car park that's the job that the
Jaguar XE also has to nail and we'd say
it has all the tools to succeed
compared with the Audi's BMWs of mercs
with which it competes the XE cuts an
altogether sporty a shape now a lot of
thats down to the wide grille the
sweeping headlamps and the big air
intakes but the sweeping roofline and
the squat rear end also contribute their
fair share to the xes racy looks all
versions including the entry-level se
car come with smart alloy wheels as
standard but as usual the size and the
design varies depending on which trim
level you plump for prestige models add
a few more chrome bits while portfolio
versions get cool boomerang-shaped LED
daytime running lights our sport and s
models also get racy looking body kits
as well
if you're looking for a similar amount
of visual impact inside the car then to
be honest you might be a bit
disappointed there are some nice styling
touches like these door ridges that run
into the dashboard but from a quality
point of view the XE just doesn't feel
anywhere near as plush as its rivals
from Germany the main touch points are
nice enough but some of the other panels
and some of the switches just feel a
little bit flimsy that said the
touchscreen works in a fairly logical
way and the driving position has bags of
adjustment but if you're looking for the
most practical compact executive car you
can get then they say MIT there's just
about enough space for adults to sit
back here comfortably but if you're much
over 6 foot you will find yourself
feeling a little bit short of headroom
the boot meanwhile is a decent size but
the space is a bit narrow and unless you
pay extra you can't fold the back seats
down to extend the load bay
you
well you might be a little underwhelmed
by the interior you're going to be
overwhelmed by the way the XE drives it
is simply sensational there's a range of
suspension options available but
whichever one you choose you get a
smooth comfortable and cosseting ride
however that comfort doesn't mean that
the XE is any kind of a slouch in the
bends quite the reverse in fact the body
control is rock solid the grip and the
balance of both superb and the steering
feels quick and accurate and progressive
for us the Jag has the beating of any of
its rivals for pure driving pleasure and
that is some praise diesel engines are
the default choice in this class of car
and the XE comes with a choice of two
2-liter units importantly the lower
powered 161 brake horsepower version
allows the XE to bust below that
all-important 100 grams per kilometre
mark for co2 emissions and that makes it
exceedingly cheap to run as a company
car this car however as the higher
powered 178 brake horsepower engine and
is pretty brisk with a good slug of
torque from about 1,800 rpm upwards it's
not the quietest diesel
encounter but that's a criticism you can
also level at most of the exes arrivals
importantly the engine does work pretty
well with the optional 8-speed automatic
gearbox fitted to this car yeah it is a
tiny bit hesitant to kick down when you
want to pick up the pace quickly but
most of the time it's lushes its way
nice and smoothly through the gears and
it's well worth the upgrade from the
6-speed manual gearbox you get a
standard because that one is a bit
notchy
if you want a compact executive car
that's top of the class for luxury
quality or practicality then there are
rivals that will do the job better on
all counts if however you want a car
that is simply stunning to drive then
the XE is it it's also very well
equipped and affordable to run which
makes it even more tempting
if you enjoyed watching this video then
click the button below to subscribe to
our YouTube channel or leave us a
comment to let us know what you think